Conformal parameterization of mesh models has numerous applications
in geometry processing. Conformality is desirable for remeshing,
surface reconstruction, and many other mesh processing
applications. Subject to the conformality requirement, these
applications typically benefit from parameterizations with smaller
stretch. The Angle Based Flattening (ABF) method, presented a few
years ago, generates provably valid conformal parameterizations
with low stretch. However, it is quite time-consuming and becomes
error prone for large meshes due to numerical error accumulation.
This work presents ABF&plus;&plus;, a highly efficient
extension of the ABF method, that overcomes these drawbacks while
maintaining all the advantages of ABF. ABF++ robustly parameterizes
meshes of hundreds of thousands and millions of triangles within
minutes. It is based on three main components: (1) a new numerical
solution technique that dramatically reduces the dimension of the
linear systems solved at each iteration, speeding up the solution;
(2) a new robust scheme for reconstructing the 2D coordinates from
the angle space solution that avoids the numerical instabilities
which hindered the ABF reconstruction scheme; and (3) an efficient
hierarchical solution technique. The speedup with (1) does not come
at the expense of greater distortion. The hierarchical technique
(3) enables parameterization of models with millions of faces in
seconds at the expense of a minor increase in parametric
distortion. The parameterization computed by ABF++ are provably
valid, that is they contain no flipped triangles. As a result of
these extensions, the ABF++ method is extremely suitable for
robustly and efficiently parameterizing models for
geometry-processing applications.