This article describes an approach to unsupervised learning of
morphology from an unannotated corpus for a highly inflectional
Indo-European language called Assamese spoken by about 30 million
people. Although Assamese is one of Indias national languages, it
utterly lacks computational linguistic resources. There exists no
prior computational work on this language spoken widely in
northeast India. The work presented is pioneering in this respect.
In this article, we discuss salient issues in Assamese morphology
where the presence of a large number of suffixal determiners,
sandhi, samas, and the propensity to use suffix sequences make
approximately 50% of the words used in written and spoken text
inflected. We implement methods proposed by Gaussier and Goldsmith
on acquisition of morphological knowledge, and obtain F-measure
performance below 60%. This motivates us to present a method more
suitable for handling suffix sequences, enabling us to increase the
F-measure performance of morphology acquisition to almost 70%. We
describe how we build a morphological dictionary for Assamese from
the text corpus. Using the morphological knowledge acquired and the
morphological dictionary, we are able to process small chunks of
data at a time as well as a large corpus. We achieve approximately
85% precision and recall during the analysis of small chunks of
coherent text.