Internet directories such as Yahoo! are an approach to improve
the efficacy and efficiency of Information Retrieval (IR) on the
Web, as pages (documents) are organized into hierarchical
categories, and similar pages are grouped together. Most of the
search engines on the Web service find documents that are assigned
to a single classification hierarchy. Categories in the hierarchy
are carefully defined by human experts and documents are well
organized. However, a single hierarchy in one language is often
insufficient to find all relevant material, as each hierarchy tends
to have some bias in both defining hierarchical structure and
classifying documents. Moreover, documents written in a language
other than the users native language often include large amounts of
information related to the users request. In this article, we
propose a method of integrating cross-language (CL) category
hierarchies, that is, Reuters 96 hierarchy and UDC code hierarchy
of Japanese by estimating category similarities. The method does
not simply merge two different hierarchies into one large hierarchy
but instead extracts sets of similar categories, where each element
of the sets is relevant with each other. It consists of three
steps. First, we classify documents from one hierarchy into
categories with another hierarchy using a cross-language text
classification (CLTC) technique, and extract category pairs of two
hierarchies. Next, we apply√á2statistics
to these pairs to obtain similar category pairs, and finally we
apply the generating function of the Apriori algorithm
(Apriori-Gen) to the category pairs, and find sets of similar
categories. Moreover, we examined whether integrating hierarchies
helps to support retrieval of documents with similar contents. The
retrieval results showed a 42.7% improvement over the baseline
nonhierarchy model, and a 21.6% improvement over a single
hierarchy.