Many real-world applications involve the management of large
amounts of time-dependent information. Temporal database systems
maintain this information in order to support various sorts of inference
(e.g., answering questions involving propositions that are true over
some intervals and false over others). For any given proposition, there
are typically many different occasions on which that proposition becomes
true and persists for some length of time. In this paper, these
occasions are referred to as time tokens. Many routine database
operations must search through the database for time tokens
satisfying certain temporal constraints. To expedite these operations,
this paper describes a set of techniques for organizing temporal
information by exploiting the local and global structure  inherent in a
wide class of temporal reasoning problems. The global structure of time
is exemplified in conventions for partitioning time according to the
calendar and the clock. This global structure is used to partition the
set of time tokens to facilitate retrieval. The local structure of time
is exemplified in the causal relationships between events and the
dependencies between planned activities. This local structure is used as
part of a strategy for reducing the computation required during
constraint propagation. The organizational techniques described in this
paper are quite general, and have been used to support a variety of
powerful inference mechanisms. Integrating these techniques into an
existing temporal database system has increased, by an order of
magnitude or more in most applications, the number of time tokens that
can be efficiently handled.â€”Author's Abstract