Scalable management and self-organizational capabilities are
emerging as central requirements for a generation of large-scale,
highly dynamic, distributed applications. We have developed an
entirely new distributed information management system called
Astrolabe. Astrolabe collects large-scale system state, permitting
rapid updates and providing on-the-fly attribute aggregation. This
latter capability permits an application to locate a resource, and
also offers a scalable way to track system state as it evolves over
time. The combination of features makes it possible to solve a wide
variety of management and self-configuration problems. This paper
describes the design of the system with a focus upon its
scalability. After describing the Astrolabe service, we present
examples of the use of Astrolabe for locating resources,
publish-subscribe, and distributed synchronization in large
systems. Astrolabe is implemented using a peer-to-peer protocol,
and uses a restricted form of mobile code based on the SQL query
language for aggregation. This protocol gives rise to a novel
consistency model. Astrolabe addresses several security
considerations using a built-in PKI. The scalability of the system
is evaluated using both simulation and experiments; these confirm
that Astrolabe could scale to thousands and perhaps millions of
nodes, with information propagation delays in the tens of seconds.