New applications such as CAD, AI, and hypermedia require direct
representation and flexible use of complex objects, behavioral
knowledge, and multimedia data. To this end, we have devised a knowledge
base management system called Jasmine. An object-oriented approach in a
programming language also seems promising for use in Jasmine. Jasmine
extends the current object-oriented approach and provides the following
features. Our object model is based on functional data models and
well-established set theory. Attributes or functions composing objects
can represent both structural and behavioral knowledge. The object model
can represent incomplete and generic knowledge. The model can support
the basic storage and operations of multimedia data. The facets of
attributes can flexibly  represent  constraints and triggers. The object
manipulation language can support associative access of objects. The
structural and behavioral knowledge can be uniformly treated to allow
the user to specify complex object operations in a compact manner. The
user-defined and system-defined attributes can be uniformly specified to
ease user customization of the language. The classes and instances can
be uniformly accessed. Incomplete knowledge can be flexibly accessed.
The system has a layered architecture. Objects are stored in nested
relations provided by extensive DBMS as a sublayer. User query of
objects is compiled into relational operations such as select and join,
which can be efficiently processed using hashing. The behavioral
knowledge is compiled into predicate and manipulation  function 
interfaces that can directly access tuples in a buffer.â€”Authors' Abstract