Information derived from the cross-references among the documents
in a hyperlinked environment, usually referred to as link
information, is considered important since it can be used to
effectively improve document retrieval. Depending on the retrieval
strategy, link information can be local or global. Local link
information is derived from the set of documents returned as
answers to the current user query. Global link information is
derived from all the documents in the collection. In this work, we
investigate how the use of local link information compares to the
use of global link information. For the comparison, we run a series
of experiments using a large document collection extracted from the
Web. For our reference collection, the results indicate that the
use of local link information improves precision by 74&percnt;.
When global link information is used, precision improves by
35&percnt;. However, when only the first 10 documents in the
ranking are considered, the average gain in precision obtained with
the use of global link information is higher than the gain obtained
with the use of local link information. This is an interesting
result since it provides insight and justification for the use of
global link information in major Web search engines, where users
are mostly interested in the first 10 answers. Furthermore, global
information can be computed in the background, which allows
speeding up query processing.